# NBA-Play-Style-Analysis

Contributor: Fengsheng Zhou, Jinghong Chen, Yihan Shi, Zhihong Li

Basketball is a sport that originated in the United States and is often played indoors on a rectangular court with two teams of five players. Each team attempts to score by putting the ball through the opponent’s basket. The National Basketball Association was founded later in the United States (NBA). After 60 years of evolution, we can see that each era of the NBA has its own distinct style of play. With new players appearing and tactical play evolving, today's league is getting more competitive. The league's approach favored physical confrontation and a traditional position game in the 1990s. There are several ways to score including layups, jump shots, free throws, 3-pointers and so on. Today, More teams are a greater focus on three-point shooting and box scores. Since extraordinary heroism does not win a team the championship, today's teams are more focused on the team's overall development. For previous NBA competitions, scores of 100 points were regarded as high in the 1990s to 2000s, and most of the time 80 to 90 points were about the average score. However, The NBA team now focuses on playing fast, and Most teams solve around in ten to fifteen seconds. So, the pace is quick, and teams are more concerned with shooting three points. We can see that the level of physical contact and muscle collision is to identify a good team and a team from the 1990s to the 00s. However, the level of physical contact began to decline after the 2010s, and they paid more attention to improve shooting skill. In other words, it's due to different competition styles.
